In this video, we'll talk about Search
a core feature of beta.SAM.gov.
You can use the search tool in beta.SAM.gov to find the same data that currently exists in the legacy systems.
Beta.SAM.gov is organized by “domain” rather than by legacy system.
Different types of award domains make up the heart of beta.SAM.gov.
There are several ways to use Search in SAM, and today we’re going to demonstrate some of those features.
If you know what contract, business, or assistance listing you’re looking for,
the easiest way to find it is entering a unique id into the search bar.
A unique id might be a Contract number, a Unique entity identifier, Solicitation ID, or CFDA number.
First, let’s search by Entity ID.
If you’re searching in “All Domains” and type the Entity ID you’re looking for, your search results will be displayed.
When searching across all domains, you can use the filters on the left to narrow your search results.
You can also sort your search results by title or date modified.
Second, let’s search by keywords.
Think of one or two keywords you’d like to search and type them in the search bar.
For example, if you’re looking for information on transportation,
you will type in keywords that relate to transportation under All Domains,
and you may see results displayed across multiple award domains.
Let’s try a keyword search in a specific domain such as Assistance Listings.
You’ll notice here the search results will only display for that domain
And remember each award domain aligns with a specific legacy system.
Now, let’s search within a specific award domain such as Contract Data and see what information is available.
This domain gives you the opportunity to select additional filtering options to further narrow your search.
The additional filters include contract type, entity ID,
and service classifications for narrowing your contract award search results to a specific NAICS or PSC code.
Last, let’s search by Wage Determination.
You can search by the ID number or if you don’t know the ID number, you can use the workflow
to find the correct wage determination.
You’ll notice the Wage Determination filters ask a series of questions to narrow your search
To further narrow your search, use the additional filtering options.
Once you’ve made your selections, you will only see results displayed based on your filters.
For more information on award domains check out the Online Help Center.